Brigadier API (#386)
PaperMC/docs: docs/paper/dev/api/commands.mdx

---
slug: /dev/commands
description: A guide to Paper's Brigadier command API.
---

# Command API

> Paper's command system is built on top of Minecraft's Brigadier command system. This system is a

Reviewer: maybe link to some already existing (?) brigadier docs here so we dont need to explain stuff like how to use arguments and stuff

powerful and flexible way to define commands and arguments.

:::danger[Experimental]

Paper's command system is still experimental and may change in the future.

:::

## Defining commands

:::note

This uses the <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.plugin.lifecycle.event.LifecycleEventManager"}>LifecycleEventManager</Javadoc>
to register the command. See the [Lifecycle Events](./lifecycle.mdx) page for more information.

:::

### JavaPlugin
Commands can be registered inside the <Javadoc name={"org.bukkit.plugin.java.JavaPlugin#onEnable()"}>onEnable</Javadoc>
method of the plugin. Commands registered here will not be available to datapack functions because
functions are loaded by the server before plugins are loaded. To make commands available to
datapacks, register them via the

> <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.plugin.bootstrap.PluginBootstrap#bootstrap(io.papermc.paper.plugin.bootstrap.BootstrapContext)"}>PluginBootstrap</Javadoc>.

Reviewer: should this just link the the plugin bootstrap section below, and then the section below should link to the paper plugin page

### PluginBootstrap

:::note

If any plugin on the server registers a handler for the `LifecycleEvents.COMMANDS` event, the
server will disable Bukkit's plugin reload functionality. This is a limitation with how
the plugin reload system works in conjunction with the plugin bootstrapper system. The `/reload`
functionality should never be used regardless.

:::

Commands are registered in the same way in a plugin's bootstrapper. The benefit of registering
commands here is that they will be available to datapack functions because the command registration
happens early enough.

```java
class YourPluginBootstrap implements PluginBootstrap {

    @Override
    public void bootstrap(BootstrapContext context) {
        LifecycleEventManager<BootstrapContext> manager = context.getLifecycleManager();
        // the same as JavaPlugin above
    }
}
```

### BasicCommand

Paper provides a simple <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.command.brigadier.BasicCommand"}>BasicCommand</Javadoc>
interface which can be used to define a command in a similar way to Bukkit's `CommandExecutor`.
There are methods on the <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.command.brigadier.Commands"}>Commands</Javadoc> interface

> to register such commands.

Reviewer: a small example would be nice here

## Arguments

### Built-in arguments

Vanilla has lots of built-in arguments that the client also supports. These can provide better
syntax and error-checking before even executing the commands. <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.command.brigadier.argument.ArgumentTypes"}>ArgumentTypes</Javadoc>

> has all the argument types available to the API.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it would be useful to have a small example about how to add arguments to a command

### Custom arguments

To create custom arguments by implementing the <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.command.brigadier.argument.CustomArgumentType"}>CustomArgumentType</Javadoc>
interface. See the javadocs for more information on those they work.

## Lifecycle

Commands are not just registered once at the start, anytime a reload happens, either via bukkit's

> reload command (which should never be used) or Minecraft's `/reload` command (which can be used),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reload command (which should never be used and will be disabled when you register at PluginBootstrap) or Minecraft's `/reload` command (which can be used),
```
or something like that

        manager.registerEventHandler(LifecycleEvents.COMMANDS, event -> {
            final Commands commands = event.registrar();
            commands.register(
                Commands.literal("new-command")
                    .executes(ctx -> {
                        ctx.getSource().getSender().sendPlainMessage("some message");
                        return Command.SINGLE_SUCCESS;
                    })
                    .build(),
                "some bukkit help description string",
                List.of("an-alias")
            );
        });
    }
}
```

### PluginBootstrap

:::note

If any plugin on the server registers a handler for the `LifecycleEvents.COMMANDS` event, the
server will disable Bukkit's plugin reload functionality. This is a limitation with how
the plugin reload system works in conjunction with the plugin bootstrapper system. The `/reload`
command should never be used regardless.

:::

Commands are registered in the same way in a

<Javadoc
  name={
    "io.papermc.paper.plugin.bootstrap.PluginBootstrap#bootstrap(io.papermc.paper.plugin.bootstrap.BootstrapContext)"
  }
>
  plugin's bootstrapper
</Javadoc>

> . The benefit of registering commands here is that they will be available to datapack functions

Reviewer 3: odd formatting

Example registration and implementation of a BasicCommand:

```java
LifecycleEventManager<BootstrapContext> manager = context.getLifecycleManager();
manager.registerEventHandler(LifecycleEvents.COMMANDS, event -> {
    final Commands commands = event.registrar();
    commands.register("fun", "some help description string", new FunCommand());
});
```

```java
class FunCommand implements BasicCommand {

    @Override
    public void execute(@NotNull CommandSourceStack stack, @NotNull String[] args) {
        if (args.length == 1 && args[0].equalsIgnoreCase("start")) {
            stack.getSender().sendRichMessage("<rainbow>Fun activated!");
        }
    }
}
```

## Arguments

### Built-in arguments

Vanilla has lots of built-in arguments that the client also supports. These can provide better
syntax and error-checking before even executing the commands. <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.command.brigadier.argument.ArgumentTypes"}>ArgumentTypes</Javadoc>
has all the argument types available to the API.

For now, you can find specific examples of arguments, among other things, on the [Fabric Wiki](https://fabricmc.net/wiki/tutorial:commands).

### Custom arguments

> To create custom arguments by implementing the <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.command.brigadier.argument.CustomArgumentType"}>CustomArgumentType</Javadoc>
> interface. See the javadocs for more information on those they work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom arguments can be created by implementing the <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.command.brigadier.argument.CustomArgumentType"}>CustomArgumentType</Javadoc>
interface. See the Javadocs for more information on how they work.
```

---
slug: /dev/commands

> description: A guide to Paper's Brigadier Command API

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: A guide to Paper's Brigadier command API.
```

---

# Command API

Paper's command system is built on top of Minecraft's Brigadier command system. This system is a
powerful and flexible way to define commands and arguments.

:::danger[Experimental]

Paper's command system is still experimental and may change in the future.

:::

> ## Defining a Command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Defining a command
```

> Commands can be easily defined within your plugin's onEnable method. This can be done like so:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Commands can be easily defined within your plugin's `onEnable` method. This can be done like so:
```

```java
class YourPluginClass extends JavaPlugin {

    @Override
    public void onEnable() {
        LifecycleEventManager<Plugin> manager = this.getLifecycleManager();
        manager.registerEventHandler(LifecycleEvents.COMMANDS, event -> {
            final Commands commands = event.registrar();
            commands.register(
                Commands.literal("new-command")
                    .executes(ctx -> {
                        ctx.getSource().getSender().sendPlainMessage("some message");
                        return Command.SINGLE_SUCCESS;
                    })
                    .build(),
                "some bukkit help description string",
                List.of("an-alias")
            );
        });
    }
}
```

:::note

> This uses our `LifecycleEventManager` to register the command. See the [Lifecycle Events](/dev/lifecycle) (WIP) page for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This uses a <Javadoc name={"io.papermc.paper.plugin.lifecycle.event.LifecycleEventManager"}>`LifecycleEventManager`</Javadoc> to register the command. See the [Lifecycle Events](/dev/lifecycle) (WIP) page for more information.
```
